docs/upgrade.rst, before:

=============
Upgrade notes
=============

Development version
===================

Dropped support for Django 1.4 and Python 2.6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Django 1.4 runs out of upstream support on October 1 2015. mptt master and the 0.8 branch will not support django 1.4.

Python 2.6 no longer receives security patches; you should be upgrading to 2.7. For this reason we've dropped 2.6
from the test runs and removed some compatibility code.

0.7.0
=====

Dropped support for Django 1.5, Added support for 1.8
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Django 1.5 support has been removed since django 1.5 is not supported upstream any longer.

Django 1.8 support has been added.

Deprecated: Calling ``recursetree``/``cache_tree_children`` with incorrectly-ordered querysets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Previously, when given a queryset argument, ``cache_tree_children`` called ``.order_by`` to ensure that the queryset
was in the correct order. In 0.7, calling ``cache_tree_children`` with an incorrectly-ordered queryset will cause a deprecation warning. In 0.8, it will raise an error.

This also applies to ``recursetree``, since it calls ``cache_tree_children``.

This probably doesn't affect many usages, since the default ordering for mptt models will work fine.

Minor: ``TreeManager.get_queryset`` no longer provided on Django < 1.6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Django renamed ``get_query_set`` to ``get_queryset`` in Django 1.6. For backward compatibility django-mptt had both methods
available for 1.4-1.5 users.

This has been removed. You should use ``get_query_set`` on Django 1.4-1.5, and ``get_queryset`` if you're on 1.6+.

Removed FeinCMSModelAdmin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Deprecated in 0.6.0, this has now been removed.

0.6.0
=====

mptt now requires Python 2.6+, and supports Python 3.2+
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

mptt 0.6 drops support for both Python 2.4 and 2.5.

This was done to make it easier to support Python 3, as well as support the new context managers (delay_mptt_updates and disable_mptt_updates).

If you absolutely can't upgrade your Python version, you'll need to stick to mptt 0.5.5 until you can.

No more implicit ``empty_label=True`` on form fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Until 0.5, ``TreeNodeChoiceField`` and ``TreeNodeMultipleChoiceField`` implicitly set ``empty_label=True``.
This was around since a long time ago, for unknown reasons. It has been removed in 0.6.0 as it caused occasional headaches for users.

If you were relying on this behavior, you'll need to explicitly pass ``empty_label=True`` to any of those fields you use,
otherwise you will start seeing new '--------' choices appearing in them.

Deprecated FeinCMSModelAdmin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you were using ``mptt.admin.FeinCMSModelAdmin``, you should switch to using 
``feincms.admin.tree_editor.TreeEditor`` instead, or you'll get a loud deprecation warning.

0.4.2 to 0.5.5
==============

``TreeManager`` is now the default manager, ``YourModel.tree`` removed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In 0.5, ``TreeManager`` now behaves just like a normal django manager. If you don't override anything,
you'll now get a ``TreeManager`` by default (``.objects``.)

Before 0.5, ``.tree`` was the default name for the ``TreeManager``. That's been removed, so we recommend
updating your code to use ``.objects``.

If you don't want to update ``.tree`` to ``.objects`` everywhere just yet, you should add an explicit ``TreeManager``
to your models::

    objects = tree = TreeManager()

``save(raw=True)`` keyword argument removed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In earlier versions, MPTTModel.save() had a ``raw`` keyword argument.
If True, the MPTT fields would not be updated during the save.
This (undocumented) argument has now been removed.

``_meta`` attributes moved to ``_mptt_meta``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In 0.4, we deprecated all these attributes on model._meta. These have now been removed::

    MyModel._meta.left_attr
    MyModel._meta.right_attr
    MyModel._meta.tree_id_attr
    MyModel._meta.level_attr
    MyModel._meta.tree_manager_attr
    MyModel._meta.parent_attr
    MyModel._meta.order_insertion_by

If you're still using any of these, you'll need to update by simply renaming ``_meta`` to ``_mptt_meta``.

Running the tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tests are now run with::

    cd tests/
    ./runtests.sh

The previous method (``python setup.py test``) no longer works since we switched to plain distutils.

0.3 to 0.4.2
============


Model changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

MPTT attributes on ``MyModel._meta`` deprecated, moved to ``MyModel._mptt_meta``
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most people won't need to worry about this, but if you're using any of the following, note that these are deprecated and will be removed in 0.5::

    MyModel._meta.left_attr
    MyModel._meta.right_attr
    MyModel._meta.tree_id_attr
    MyModel._meta.level_attr
    MyModel._meta.tree_manager_attr
    MyModel._meta.parent_attr
    MyModel._meta.order_insertion_by

They'll continue to work as previously for now, but you should upgrade your code if you can. Simply replace ``_meta`` with ``_mptt_meta``.


Use model inheritance where possible
------------------------------------

The preferred way to do model registration in ``django-mptt`` 0.4 is via model inheritance.

Suppose you start with this::

    class Node(models.Model):
        ...
    
    mptt.register(Node, order_insertion_by=['name'], parent_attr='padre')


First, Make your model a subclass of ``MPTTModel``, instead of ``models.Model``::

    from mptt.models import MPTTModel
    
    class Node(MPTTModel):
        ...

Then remove your call to ``mptt.register()``. If you were passing it keyword arguments, you should add them to an ``MPTTMeta`` inner class on the model::

    class Node(MPTTModel):
        ...
        class MPTTMeta:
            order_insertion_by = ['name']
            parent_attr = 'padre'

If necessary you can still use ``mptt.register``. It was removed in 0.4.0 but restored in 0.4.2, since people reported use cases that didn't work without it.)

For instance, if you need to register models where the code isn't under your control, you'll need to use ``mptt.register()``.

Behind the scenes, ``mptt.register()`` in 0.4 will actually add MPTTModel to ``Node.__bases__``,
thus achieving the same result as subclassing ``MPTTModel``.
If you're already inheriting from something other than ``Model``, that means multiple inheritance.

You're probably all upgraded at this point :) A couple more notes for more complex scenarios:


More complicated scenarios
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

What if I'm already inheriting from something?
----------------------------------------------

If your model is already a subclass of an abstract model, you should use multiple inheritance::

    class Node(MPTTModel, ParentModel):
        ...

You should always put MPTTModel as the first model base. This is because there's some
complicated metaclass stuff going on behind the scenes, and if Django's model metaclass
gets called before the MPTT one, strange things can happen.

Isn't multiple inheritance evil? Well, maybe. However, the 
`Django model docs`_ don't forbid this, and as long as your other model doesn't have conflicting methods, it should be fine.

.. note::
   As always when dealing with multiple inheritance, approach with a bit of caution.
   
   Our brief testing says it works, but if you find that the Django internals are somehow
   breaking this approach for you, please `create an issue`_ with specifics.

.. _`create an issue`: http://github.com/django-mptt/django-mptt/issues
.. _`Django model docs`: http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/db/models/#multiple-inheritance


Compatibility with 0.3
----------------------

``MPTTModel`` was added in 0.4. If you're writing a library or reusable app that needs to work with 0.3,
you should use the ``mptt.register()`` function instead, as above.

Commit message:

Remove some compatibility code for unsupported django/python versions.

docs/upgrade.rst, after:

=============
Upgrade notes
=============

0.8.0
===================

Dropped support for old Django versions and Python 2.6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Unsupported versions of django (1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7) are no longer supported, and Python 2.6 is no longer supported.

These versions of python/django no longer receive security patches. You should upgrade to Python 2.7 and Django 1.8+.

Django 1.9 support has been added.

0.7.0
=====

Dropped support for Django 1.5, Added support for 1.8
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Django 1.5 support has been removed since django 1.5 is not supported upstream any longer.

Django 1.8 support has been added.

Deprecated: Calling ``recursetree``/``cache_tree_children`` with incorrectly-ordered querysets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Previously, when given a queryset argument, ``cache_tree_children`` called ``.order_by`` to ensure that the queryset
was in the correct order. In 0.7, calling ``cache_tree_children`` with an incorrectly-ordered queryset will cause a deprecation warning. In 0.8, it will raise an error.

This also applies to ``recursetree``, since it calls ``cache_tree_children``.

This probably doesn't affect many usages, since the default ordering for mptt models will work fine.

Minor: ``TreeManager.get_queryset`` no longer provided on Django < 1.6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Django renamed ``get_query_set`` to ``get_queryset`` in Django 1.6. For backward compatibility django-mptt had both methods
available for 1.4-1.5 users.

This has been removed. You should use ``get_query_set`` on Django 1.4-1.5, and ``get_queryset`` if you're on 1.6+.

Removed FeinCMSModelAdmin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Deprecated in 0.6.0, this has now been removed.

0.6.0
=====

mptt now requires Python 2.6+, and supports Python 3.2+
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

mptt 0.6 drops support for both Python 2.4 and 2.5.

This was done to make it easier to support Python 3, as well as support the new context managers (delay_mptt_updates and disable_mptt_updates).

If you absolutely can't upgrade your Python version, you'll need to stick to mptt 0.5.5 until you can.

No more implicit ``empty_label=True`` on form fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Until 0.5, ``TreeNodeChoiceField`` and ``TreeNodeMultipleChoiceField`` implicitly set ``empty_label=True``.
This was around since a long time ago, for unknown reasons. It has been removed in 0.6.0 as it caused occasional headaches for users.

If you were relying on this behavior, you'll need to explicitly pass ``empty_label=True`` to any of those fields you use,
otherwise you will start seeing new '--------' choices appearing in them.

Deprecated FeinCMSModelAdmin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you were using ``mptt.admin.FeinCMSModelAdmin``, you should switch to using 
``feincms.admin.tree_editor.TreeEditor`` instead, or you'll get a loud deprecation warning.

0.4.2 to 0.5.5
==============

``TreeManager`` is now the default manager, ``YourModel.tree`` removed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In 0.5, ``TreeManager`` now behaves just like a normal django manager. If you don't override anything,
you'll now get a ``TreeManager`` by default (``.objects``.)

Before 0.5, ``.tree`` was the default name for the ``TreeManager``. That's been removed, so we recommend
updating your code to use ``.objects``.

If you don't want to update ``.tree`` to ``.objects`` everywhere just yet, you should add an explicit ``TreeManager``
to your models::

    objects = tree = TreeManager()

``save(raw=True)`` keyword argument removed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In earlier versions, MPTTModel.save() had a ``raw`` keyword argument.
If True, the MPTT fields would not be updated during the save.
This (undocumented) argument has now been removed.

``_meta`` attributes moved to ``_mptt_meta``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In 0.4, we deprecated all these attributes on model._meta. These have now been removed::

    MyModel._meta.left_attr
    MyModel._meta.right_attr
    MyModel._meta.tree_id_attr
    MyModel._meta.level_attr
    MyModel._meta.tree_manager_attr
    MyModel._meta.parent_attr
    MyModel._meta.order_insertion_by

If you're still using any of these, you'll need to update by simply renaming ``_meta`` to ``_mptt_meta``.

Running the tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tests are now run with::

    cd tests/
    ./runtests.sh

The previous method (``python setup.py test``) no longer works since we switched to plain distutils.

0.3 to 0.4.2
============


Model changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

MPTT attributes on ``MyModel._meta`` deprecated, moved to ``MyModel._mptt_meta``
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Most people won't need to worry about this, but if you're using any of the following, note that these are deprecated and will be removed in 0.5::

    MyModel._meta.left_attr
    MyModel._meta.right_attr
    MyModel._meta.tree_id_attr
    MyModel._meta.level_attr
    MyModel._meta.tree_manager_attr
    MyModel._meta.parent_attr
    MyModel._meta.order_insertion_by

They'll continue to work as previously for now, but you should upgrade your code if you can. Simply replace ``_meta`` with ``_mptt_meta``.


Use model inheritance where possible
------------------------------------

The preferred way to do model registration in ``django-mptt`` 0.4 is via model inheritance.

Suppose you start with this::

    class Node(models.Model):
        ...
    
    mptt.register(Node, order_insertion_by=['name'], parent_attr='padre')


First, Make your model a subclass of ``MPTTModel``, instead of ``models.Model``::

    from mptt.models import MPTTModel
    
    class Node(MPTTModel):
        ...

Then remove your call to ``mptt.register()``. If you were passing it keyword arguments, you should add them to an ``MPTTMeta`` inner class on the model::

    class Node(MPTTModel):
        ...
        class MPTTMeta:
            order_insertion_by = ['name']
            parent_attr = 'padre'

If necessary you can still use ``mptt.register``. It was removed in 0.4.0 but restored in 0.4.2, since people reported use cases that didn't work without it.)

For instance, if you need to register models where the code isn't under your control, you'll need to use ``mptt.register()``.

Behind the scenes, ``mptt.register()`` in 0.4 will actually add MPTTModel to ``Node.__bases__``,
thus achieving the same result as subclassing ``MPTTModel``.
If you're already inheriting from something other than ``Model``, that means multiple inheritance.

You're probably all upgraded at this point :) A couple more notes for more complex scenarios:


More complicated scenarios
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

What if I'm already inheriting from something?
----------------------------------------------

If your model is already a subclass of an abstract model, you should use multiple inheritance::

    class Node(MPTTModel, ParentModel):
        ...

You should always put MPTTModel as the first model base. This is because there's some
complicated metaclass stuff going on behind the scenes, and if Django's model metaclass
gets called before the MPTT one, strange things can happen.

Isn't multiple inheritance evil? Well, maybe. However, the 
`Django model docs`_ don't forbid this, and as long as your other model doesn't have conflicting methods, it should be fine.

.. note::
   As always when dealing with multiple inheritance, approach with a bit of caution.
   
   Our brief testing says it works, but if you find that the Django internals are somehow
   breaking this approach for you, please `create an issue`_ with specifics.

.. _`create an issue`: http://github.com/django-mptt/django-mptt/issues
.. _`Django model docs`: http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/db/models/#multiple-inheritance


Compatibility with 0.3
----------------------

``MPTTModel`` was added in 0.4. If you're writing a library or reusable app that needs to work with 0.3,
you should use the ``mptt.register()`` function instead, as above.
